Database 
A Database stores data. Collection of Related Data that represent some Real world entities.
provdies orgatanisational structure for data
Mechanism to query, creating, modifying, delete data.(CRUD)

Issues with traditional file systems - redundancy, inconsistency

Data - Facts that can be recorded. eg.Texts, Numbers,Videos,Images,Audio
Information - Meaningful/Processed Data

Components of Database systems are Users->,Database Applications(Website)->, DBMS->, Database.
Databse contains user data ,Metadata, Indexes /other overhead data and Application metadata.
Metadata are data describing the structure of the data in the database.

DBMS -Software tool to manage data.
A database management system (DBMS) is software that controls the storage, organization, and retrieval of data. Typically, a DBMS has the following elements:
Kernel code
  This code manages memory and storage for the DBMS.
Repository of metadata
  This repository is usually called a data dictionary.
Query language
  This language enables applications to access the data


Relational database - stores data in tables. 
Columns/Fields/Attributes - represent different attributes of the entity
rows/Records/Tuples - represent different instances of the entity

Entity - person, order ,customer (i.e) anything that we store data about.
Attribute - character , hair colour, name , dress style etc

Referential Integrity Constraint - helps to keep the data consistent. 
consider dept(id -15,16,17) and employee tables. If we try to add an employee with dept id 18 in employee table it will not allow.

Keys 
Super Key - Attribute/Set of attribute used to uniquely identify a record. 
maximum superkeys - for a table with 5 columns -> 2 (power^ n) -1 = 32 -1 =31 
for 4 columns -> 4C1+4C2+4C3+4C4 = 4+6+4+1= 15 which is the same when calculated using 2 (power^ n)-1 formula.

Candidate Key -> Super key whose proper subset is not a super key. Cqandidate key is a Minimal Super key.
proper subset-> S1(1,2,3) , S2(1,2) For S2 to be proper subset of S1 it should satisfy 2 criteria
(1)S2 to be a subset(C_) of S1 (2)S1 not a subset of S2.
From the below table it can be deduced that super keys are A,AB,AC,ABC,BC.
It can be seen that super keys AB,AC are proper subset of super key ABC. Hence ABC cannot be a candidate key.
Likewise super key A is a proper subset of super keys AB and AC. Hence AB and AC cannot be candidate keys.
In this case A and BC are the two candidate keys.
Minimal Super key - Minimal means as minimum as possible. From ABC we remove C qand check if AB is also super key. 
If AB is super key we further remove B and check if A is a super key. Like this we deduce super key to identify the candidate key.
Consider R(A,B,C) 
1 1 1 
2 1 2
3 2 1
4 2 2

Consider R(A,B,C,D) with values  . Solve below for super keys,candidate keys. Candidate key for below =A
1 1 5 1
2 1 7 1
3 1 7 1
4 2 7 1
5 2 5 1
6 2 5 2

